>> Speaker 1: The JSON schema, if you're
not familiar with that it's actually
a pretty solid standard,
lots of things use it.
And it's great for validating options and
stuff, so if somebody is using your plug
in, they configure it wrong, and
then they'll get some validation here.
So the schema is gonna be an array.
And the way that it's
configured in the ESLint rule,
when you actually configure ESLint here,
actually,
let's see,
we have an .eslintrc right here.
So if I were to configure
our no console rule.
You can configure it to just be off or
to warn or to error out.
But if you wanna be able to pass some
options then you turn this into an array.
And then all the other things that you
provide here are the rest of the options.
And so often you'll see that there will
only be one option that's an object and
that has properties on it
just because it's easier than
a big long list of options.
As far as reading the configuration later.
And so since we're gonna have this
allowedMethods the way that this would be
is like allowedMethods: ['warn'].
So that's how you'd configure this
once we have this all finished up.
And then in our test we have that
configuration as part of the rule tester,
where if you provide an object with code,
then you can provide options and
that's the configuration options.
So sorry, I didn't really
quite make that clear before.
That may have given
a little bit more context.
The other thing that's unfortunate is
AST explorer doesn't support providing
configuration options, which I probably
should've mentioned earlier too.
So sorry about that.
But, never fear we have really
great tests running and
everything so we can still do this.
So for our schema,
we're gonna have an object.
And inside of this object
we have our configuration.
So just the fact that this schema
is an object doesn't mean that
the first argument is gonna be an object.
This is just our configuration object
that says what the schema should be.
This type property is where we define
what type we want this to be, and we do,
in fact, want it to be an object,
so we're setting type: 'object'.
And the properties of that object
is an object that have keys of
what the property should be,
and then the value will be the schema for
that property.
So ours will be allowedMethods, and
this is our schema for
the allowedMethods property.
The type of allowedMethods will
be an array, and the items,
which hopefully you were able to glean
that piece from the JSON schema examples.
Items for us, you could say the type is
a string and that would work just fine.
But we're gonna say that it's an enum to
specify exactly what strings are allowed.
And I'll just copy the disallowed methods.
So that you can allow those methods.
And also a couple of extra pieces of
our schema specification here,
just to make it even more useful,
is if you are going to specify a lot
of methods, then we want minItems of 1.
So we wouldn't want to have allowed
methods with an empty array,
that would be useless.
And so we'll require people provide one.
And uniqueItems is true, just so
that people aren't repeating
themselves unnecessarily.
Getting the actual options,
well we get it from context.options,
and we can save that and
we'll see these console logs.
Here's something cool.
So we're using Jest as
a testing framework, and
it shows us where that
console log came from.
And then it shows us what the log is.
Which is totally rad.
Line 34 in no-console.js, yeah.
Okay cool, so most of these are empty
arrays, so there's no configuration.
But one of them has an item in it.
The configuration we want,
so we'll get the config
from context.options first item, or
we'll just make it an empty object
just to make things easier for us.
And then we'll get
the allowed Methods from
the config.allowedMethods.
And let's go ahead and
we'll console.log just here, and
we'll default that to an empty array,
as well.
Destructuring would really help right
here, but we're not gonna do that.
Okay, cool, so now we have an empty array
for most of them, but one for this one.
And now it just becomes a matter of
including this as part of our check as to
whether or not this thing is okay, and
we should exit early or
if we should report on it.
And the thing that, sorry,
should make that bigger.
The thing that determines
what function is being called
is this property right here, so we have.
The identifier were the name is console,
yeah console the parent has
a type of member expression, and
that member expression has an object
which would be the console,
and a property which would be log,
or dir, of whatever.
And so
here we can say we wanna make sure that
the property name value is either not in
the allowedMethods.includes(val),
and it's also in the disallowedMethods.
So lots of negation and
stuff going on here, but basically,
this thing, this node looks like something
we don't want, if it has these properties,
and the function that's being called
is not in the allowedMethods.
So if it's in the allowedMethods,
we're good, and
it's in the disc lab methods, so if it's
in disc lab methods, we're not good.
Okay, hopefully that logic
kind of makes sense.
And we have passing tests.
Everything's green,
remove that console.log there.
So that was fun,
>> Speaker 1: Providing options is
something that you do quite frequently,
so that learning and
using JSON schema is a valuable skill for
ESlint programmers.
And JSON schema is useful for
lots of other things,
like there's a module called joi, J O I,
that uses JSON schema to validate stuff.
And it's great, it's a really powerful
system so I recommend learning it.
Okay, that's it for that exercise, and
let's just ask really quick what are some
of the take aways from this exercise?
I will sit in here silence until I get
at least one person to say one takeaway.
>> Speaker 2: I learned
something about schema today.
>> Speaker 1: You learned something
about schema, JSON schema, excellent!
>> Speaker 2: Yes, JSON schema.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, and
that's great, good takeaway.
Yeah, and the ability to provide options,
provide that in your test.
And validate those things so that your
plug in can be more configurable,
and more useful to more people.